Thank you.
There you go.
I can't believe
you remember that.
What, are you kidding me?
You singing
"Everybody Hurts"?
Oh, sorry.
Yeah, my R.E.M. phase.
Well, I couldn't take
my eyes off you, so...
Are you sure it didn't
have anything to do
with what I was
wearing, maybe?
Uh, black leather miniskirt,
white tank top...
Seriously, though,
you guys were good.
Coulda went
on the road.
I don't think so.
Okay, you know, I--
I got a confession.
Your best show, 5:00 a.m.,
morning after graduation,
on the roof of the gym.
What?
You'd just got dumped
by Curtis at that party.
God, I don't
believe this.
Took your guitar,
you went up to the roof,
and you came up with this
really gentle song.
You were up there?
You were singing...
I'm sorry.
It's just, after I heard that,
I thought... I felt like I...
knew you.
You know, there's this
wine-tasting thing
at Niagara-on-the-Lake
next weekend.
I was thinking, you know,
maybe we could go?
Um...
I mean, we don't
have to stay over,
it could just
be a day trip.
I was just thinking,
'cause we haven't seen
each other for a while.
Yeah, yeah. And it's
been really great.
I-- I just...
(gunshot, faint scream)
What was that?
That was gunfire.
(people screaming)
Wait, hold on.
Steve! Wait!
(tires screech, horns blare)
MAN: Hey, watch it!
Hey, what are you doing?
JULES:
Stop!
MAN:
Somebody's been shot!
Winnie, it's Jules.
Oh, hey! How are you
enjoying your day off?
JULES:
I've got shots fired
inside the Sultan Grill,
on the Danforth.
Guys, guys!
What's happening?
Are you okay?
We're outside
the restaurant right now.
Is the shooter still inside?
JULES:
I can't see.
Someone's shot, Jules.
I gotta, I gotta get in there.
No, Steve.
We need to wait for backup.
The shooter might still...
Jules!
Let's go!
Jules, hang tight!
We're coming!
Team One, hot call! Suit up!
He could be dead
before they get here.
Don't go in there! Steve!
WINNIE: Shots fired at the
Sultan Grill on the Danforth.
One confirmed victim down.
GUNMAN: I warned you!
I asked you a simple question,
all you had to do was answer.
Eric?
Now one more time!
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Tell me where he is!
I don't know!
Where's Riyaz?
I'm sorry, I
don't know who that is.
Where are your hands?
Where are your hands?!
No. No cell phones.
Okay, all cell phones
on the floor, now. Now!
Go get 'em.
Collect them!
GUNMAN:
Now! Anyone caught attempting
to communicate
with him will be shot,
do you understand me?
It's gonna be okay.
Total communication blackout.
All right?
I'm a medic.
I'm gonna help you.
You're gonna be okay.
Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey!
Easy, easy.
What are
you doing?
He just wants to make sure
that he's okay.
Okay, well, get away.
Come on, get away!
Get away from him!
You. Lock it! Lock the door!
You. Barricade it.
Tables and chairs, come on.
Nobody's leaving
until I get some answers.
All right. You...
Knives, forks, uh, corkscrews,
any sharp implements.
If I find anything that
can be used as a weapon...
Go! Come on, come on, come on!
That's good.
Get against the wall.
Hands where I can see 'em.
Go! Move!
Set up a perimeter.
Get the uniforms and keep all
these people back.
Let's do it now!
We're dealing with
at least one shooter.
How many hostages?
ED:
Ten, maybe more.
SAM: Jules?
Limited vantage.
Looks like the front
doors are barricaded.
Maybe Jules can feed us
information from inside.
Nah, if that gunman
finds out Jules is a cop...
All right.
(whispering)
Hey. Quiet! Get-- hey-- you guys
clear out of here.
Go! I want everyone
to keep quiet.
I gotta... think.
You. On the floor.
Knees! Here.
Hands behind the head.
You know what this
place is, right?
It's-- it's a restaurant.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, it looks
very much like a restaurant,
but do you--
(frustrated sigh)
do you know what it is?
(exhales)
What are you looking at?!
(PDA buzzes)
GUNMAN:
You know what it's really for?
You know who meets here,
and what they want? Huh?
Where's Riyaz?
(PDA chirps)
PARKER
Jules is okay.
She says there's one gunman
and 18 hostages.
What's the gunman want?
GUNMAN: Riyaz should
be here now. Where is he?
(PDA chirps)
PARKER:
Looking for Riyaz.
Who's Riyaz?
Hey, Spike.
PARKER: See if there's a
connection between
the Sultan Grill and someone
named Riyaz.
On it.
You told him not to come,
because I'm here.
Didn't you?
I don't even know
what you mean.
I gotta try to talk to him.
(gasping)
JULES:
Sir?
Hey!
You stay where you are.
I'm gonna stay right here.
All right. Good.
My name's Jules. What's yours?
Oh.
(laughs)
You're looking
for somebody named Riyaz?
Yeah. What? You know him?
No, I don't. But maybe
I could help you find him.
Oh. Well, he knows him!
And if he had just
told me where he was,
when I asked, then this
wouldn't have happened.
(siren wails)
No...
Oh, no. No, no. Okay.
Uh, everybody...
Go! Go! Everybody,
against the door!
Go to the front.
Everybody!
Go, go, go!
Against the front.
Go. Against the door.
Go, now!
He's lining up hostages
against the window.
He's making a human shield.
Sam?
No vantage. I'm coming down.
Hey. Hey! What are you doing?
Sir, this man is losing
a lot of blood. He needs
to go to the
hospital.
I said no one's leaving!
Okay.
Well, this is my friend Steve.
He's a paramedic.
If you let him look at him,
maybe he can help him,
and then you can find Riyaz.
That's what you
want, right?
(panting)
Yeah.
Just hang in there, buddy.
Hang in.
Okay, he's barely conscious.
Look, I'm going to need
some napkins, clean
water and plastic wrap.
I can get them.
Okay. Go.
Stay where
I can see you.
Come on. Come on.
Move fast!
Okay. We know
who we're looking for.
The owner of the restaurant
is Riyaz Fayad.
Good. Now let's find out
who's got a beef with him.
Neighbors,
disgruntled employees?
What's going on, Eddie?
All right.
We got an air vent on the roof.
Might be able to feed
a snake cam through that.
All right, go for it.
Let's do it.
Is Eric going to be okay?
He's got decreased breath sounds
on the left side.
What does that mean?
His lung collapsed.
Oh, my God.
Look, he needs
chest decompression.
You don't happen to have
a kit in your purse,
do you?
Can you improvise?
Yeah.
I need a pen. I need some vodka.
A knife.
Sir?
A knife?
What do you think I am,
an idiot?
I promise we're going
to hand it back
as soon as we're done.
Please.
All right.
JULES:
Whoa, whoa.
What are you doing?
If you try anything,
I'm going to shoot her.
(woman hyperventilating)
I'm going to get the vodka.
Okay, go.
Just go!
I'm going.
Here you go.
Thanks.
Okay. Knife.
Mm-hmm.
You got it?
Yep.
Look, I'm sorry
for getting us into this.
You were just
trying to help.
Okay.
(slicing, Steve groans)
Oh, my God.
(murmurs)
Okay. Hand me the pen.
Okay.
Hand me the
plastic wrap.
Yep.
This is going
to hold the pen in place.
It's going to protect the wound.
Pass me the knife.
Slide it across the
ground. Come on.
(woman gasping)
Okay.
There. All right.
All right.
Angle it a little to the left.
I'm in.
ED:
Spike?
Eyes are good.
PARKER: All right.
Steve's taking care
of the gunshot victim.
I don't see
any other wounded.
There's a lot of buzz
on Riyaz Fayad.
Terror watch blogs,
mainstream press...
They're all suggesting
he's a leader
of an extremist terror cell.
Anti-Terror Unit
investigating?
Uh, the details are classified.
Take time to get more intel.
Eddie, Fayad's being
investigated for terrorism.
You think he's connected
to the gunman?
I don't know.
Why don't you go talk to him?
Spike.
Yeah. Sending the address
to your PDAs right now.
Let's move it.
PARKER:
Maybe he's got the information
we need to play things out.
GUNMAN: You. You!
Gray shirt.
Come here!
On your knees.
Get on your
knees. Kneel.
PARKER:
All right.
That's it. I'm calling in.
Where's Riyaz?
(phone ringing)
Where's Riyaz?!
I don't know!
I don't know.
Come on! We're
running out of time here!
(phone rings)
I bet that's the police.
Maybe they want to help.
Yeah. You'd think so,
but, you know, no.
In the big picture,
they're just puppets.
There's nothing they can do.
Okay, but maybe you can help
show them the big picture,
and explain to them why
you want to find this guy.
(ringing continues)
Uh...
Okay, fine. Answer it.
(ringing continues)
(phone beeps on)
JULES:
Hello?
So much for your day off, huh?
JULES:
Yes.
There's a gentleman here.
He's looking
for a man named Riyaz Fayad.
It's very important.
JULES:
Can you help him find him?
Get me his name, Jules.
They'll help you find Riyaz
if you give them your name.
It's Davis Lagosto.
JULES:
Okay. It's Davis Lagosto.
I'll check him out.
Why do you need to find Riyaz?
Riyaz Fayad's using
this restaurant as a front
for his terrorist operations.
Okay, I have
reliable sources.
I'm just here to stop him
before he strikes.
Tell him Fayad's being
investigated by the ATU.
Riyaz is already under
investigation by the ATU,
the Anti-Terror Unit.
And if he's a terrorist,
they're going to do
everything they can
to bring him to justice.
No! By then, it'll be too late!
What?
It's-It's going
to happen any day now.
What's happening?
He and his people.
They're-They're going to be
planting bombs on the subway.
How does he know this?
JULES:
Okay. If you know
of a terrorist act, you
have to tell the police.
Get back!
Okay. I'm back.
What are you doing?
I thought you were helping me.
I am. I'm-I'm talking
to the police.
LAGOSTO:
Put the gun down!
What's going on, Jules?
Okay, put it down.
Put down the gun!
I-I don't have a gun.
Put down the gun, or I'm gonna
have to shoot you.
Put it down now!
I'm putting it down.
Slowly.
Slowly, slowly.
Okay, good.
Get out.
Get over there, come on.
Come on!
Get back.
All right,
hands above your head.
Wait. He didn't
hang up the phone.
Thank you, Davis.
We still have ears.
SPIKE:
Transferring the
line to headset.
What do you have on Davis?
Substance abuse?
SPIKE:
No, but we do have
breaking and entering,
assault...
A history of violence.
Also served time
in a psych ward.
What's he been diagnosed with?
Uh, can't get details.
I'd have to get clearance.
Oh, some kind of
delusional disorder.
Let's see if we can
track down his family.
So this terrorist
attack...
Could be delusion,
could be
there's a grain of truth.
Riyaz Fayad
is being investigated.
SPIKE:
Still waiting on
that call from ATU,
see if there's
been any chatter.
Police.
Riyaz Fayad, open the door!
Do it now!
Police.
Can I help you?
Yeah.
We're here to talk
to Riyaz Fayad.
What do you want with him?
We need to ask him
a few questions.
Sorry. He's not here
right now. Hey!
Police! Wordy.
Wait!
Leave him alone!
Police!
(panting)
Police! Stop
right there!
Police!
Right there!
Let's see some hands now!
WORDY:
Do it now!
Sir.
Don't come any closer!
Mr. Fayad, I'm Officer Lane,
this is Officer Wordsworth.
Now, we just need to
talk, but you need to put
that weapon down now.
Sir, we just want
to talk to you.
I haven't done anything wrong!
Mr. Fayad, we have to
consider that a threat, sir.
I know how this works!
You capture me like an animal.
No lawyer, no rights.
Fly me off to some other country
to be tortured.
Please, Riyaz, don't.
Mrs. Fayad,
back in the house.
Back in the house!
Cashmira, stay back.
Mr. Fayad,
listen to your wife.
We just want
to talk here.
You knock on my door
with assault weapons
for a conversation?
We will put the guns away.
Please put the pipe down.
Please, Riyaz.
Just help us out here.
Don't make this
any worse.
That's it.
Thank you, sir. Wordy?
Drop it! Drop it!
Right now!
That's it.
Turn around.
Up against the fence.
Just tell me
if he's okay, will you?
PARKER:
Right now,
he's got a gun, and he's holding
several people hostage
inside a restaurant.
Oh, my God.
Davis, my boy.
Oh!
Mr. Lagosto, we understand
that your son has a history
of mental illness.
Yeah.
He was diagnosed
paranoid schizophrenic
when he was 15.
So, he suffers from delusions?
Yeah.
Davis thinks
everyone's out to get him.
Hey, Davis,
how you doing?
Are you okay?
Riyaz should have been here
by now.
Where is he?
Well, the police
are looking for him.
Yeah, well, we're running
out of time.
ED:
We have an armed man
who has barricaded himself
inside your restaurant,
looking for you.
Now, we need
to know why.
His name is Davis Lagosto.
You ever seen him?
No, I've never
seen him before.
Soldiers are all out in
the Middle East, you know?
But where are they
when we need them here?
Why do we need soldiers here?
There are terror operatives
in every major city
in North America.
Of course we need them here.
Sounds really scary.
He thought his mother
was under orders to kill him.
So he came
into our bedroom one night
while we were sleeping
with a rope,
tied it around her neck,
tried to strangle her.
I'm sorry. That sounds
terrifying, sir.
(sighs)
But we loved him, you know?
There are dozens of sleeper
cells all across this country.
It's not just Al Qaeda.
It's Hezbollah and Hamas.
WORDY:
Gunman's convinced
that you're planning an attack
on the subway system.
Of course,
'cause I'm a terrorist.
Ever since those news reports
came out,
they've threatened my wife
and my child.
They painted hate messages
on my home and my restaurant,
all based on nothing.
They could be living
next door to you,
and you wouldn't even know it.
And you feel like
it's your responsibility
to do something about it.
I don't have a choice!
There was an anti-psychotic.
Really helped for a while.
Uh, Davis managed
to get through college.
Got a degree
in chemical engineering.
What, the drug stopped working?
Yeah. He had a breakdown
after college.
Had to be hospitalized.
All right, Mr. Fayad, can we
take a look at those threats?
Gladly.
Wordy, uncuff him. Ma'am?
(handcuffs clicking)
Is he on any medication
right now?
I really don't know. I...
I haven't seen my son
in over a year.
Why not, sir?
Last time I checked him
into the hospital,
he got very angry.
He thought I was trying
to have him committed.
When he got out,
I tried to get him
to come home, but...
he didn't want any part of me.
Okay, where is he living
now, do you know?
He's, uh... at Harmony House.
It's a group home.
St. George Street.
Okay, just hang on one second,
Mr. Lagosto.
Get ahold of Harmony House.
I'm sure he's got
a social worker there.
Let's get in touch with him.
Mr. Irwin?
Yeah.
How you doing?
I'm Sergeant Parker.
Thank you for coming.
Will you follow
me please, sir?
So you're Davis' primary
social worker?
Yeah. I've known him
for over two years.
Look, this is
all my fault.
Davis is my responsibility.
Look, we understand that Davis
has been charged with
assault in the past.
Now, these violent outbursts--
do they happen often?
He's not some kind
of monster. He's sick.
Yeah, I understand
that, sir...
Look, paranoid schizophrenics
are prone to suspicion.
If they feel threatened,
they sometimes lash out
to protect themselves.
But Davis believes
that terrorists
are planning an attack
on the city.
What did he say?
He said that restaurant
is a front for a terror cell.
Has he mentioned
Riyaz Fayad before?
I don't think so.
But he's been talking a lot
about terrorists lately.
Do you know what
might have triggered that?
Terrorism's all over
the news these days.
Bombings in Madrid, Chechnya.
Yeah.
Eric?
Oh, my God.
What's happening?
His pulse is thready.
There's no breath sounds.
My God...
Come on, Eric.
Hang in there.
Oh, my God.
Come on, buddy.
Hang in there, buddy.
Steve...
Why are you stopping?
Help, please.
Tell him
to keep going.
Why are you
stopping?!
I'm sorry. It's...
No.
MAN:
Oh, my God.
LAGOSTO:
Hey!
Is he dead?
Yes.
Oh.
Oh?
Okay, Angela...
That's all you have to say?
Eric never did anything to you.
Okay. He harbored
a known terrorist.
Riyaz is not a terrorist!
What's wrong
with you?!
Okay, she's escalating him now.
Angela, you know what, we need
to stay really calm right now.
Hey!
All right, just shut up!
Quiet! Shut up!
Both of you!
You come in here
on a Muslim witch hunt...
You're not listening to me,
all right?
This is a front
for a terrorist operation.
A front?
So then what does that make me?
All right. Oh, my God,
you're one of them.
You're a black widow.
So now I'm a terrorist, too.
Aw, crap.
Everybody, get back.
Stay back, everybody.
Get back! Get back!
Davis, what do you see?
All right, she's got a bomb.
She's about to
detonate a bomb!
We're all terrorists.
Get down! She's got a bomb!
All right...
Hey...
(gunshot)
Shots fired.
LAGOSTO:
Why'd you do that?
Are you okay?
I think so.
LAGOSTO:
She'll take us all with her.
Oh, my God, Steve.
Stay back.
LAGOSTO:
Nobody try anything.
SAM:
Is Jules okay?
It's Steve. He's been shot.
Steve.
I'm okay.
Just lie
still, Angela.
SAM:
Jules needs backup.
I want to go in.
From where?
This back door leads
right into the basement.
Okay. Sam, you're just
covering on this, all right?
She knows what she's doing.
I know she does.
Just saying.
Yes, sir.
We've got to stop the bleeding.
(groans)
It's okay. I got it, I got it.
Get back. Get back, all of you.
Get back.
All right,
let's slow down...
Shut up! Shut up!
Hands above your head.
All right, I know that you're
afraid right now, Davis.
All right, we're leaving.
We have to find something
to bind her hands and feet.
We have to dismantle the bomb.
She's not going to hurt you.
She's got a bomb!
Are you blind?!
Oh, my God.
SPIKE:
He's turning on Jules.
We got to find a way
to get past his delusions.
He said we needed soldiers here.
Maybe I can talk to him as one.
PARKER:
Go for it, Sam.
But boss, this place has serious
security for a restaurant.
I'm looking at reinforced steel.
After 9-11, a lot of
Middle-Eastern businesses
have been targets for vandals.
I'm going to have
to torch my way through.
Copy that.
This brick was thrown
through our window.
"Die, Arab pig."
Sayid was in the room when it
happened. He was terrified.
"Go back to the Middle-East."
He was born in Vancouver.
Why didn't you report this?
Do you think
anyone cares
about death threats against
a suspected terrorist?
Why were you accused
in the first place?
Back in, uh... 2004,
I started donating money
to an Islamic charity.
I was told it was
a scholarship fund
for underprivileged kids.
I found out later
that the charity
was a front used
to fund terrorist activities
including the London bombings.
And from that they assumed
you were the leader
of a terrorist cell.
I convinced a lot of other
members of my mosque
to donate to the same charity.
We thought we were
doing something good.
ATU dragged us from our homes
in the middle of the night.
They interrogated us
for hours.
They froze our bank accounts,
confiscated our passports.
Once it got leaked to the press,
that's when all the threats
started to happen.
SPIKE:
Hey, Ed,
just got off the phone
with the Anti-Terror Unit.
Excuse me one second.
Any intel on a possible attack?
No, and they checked with other
agencies. No chatter, nothing.
And Mr. Fayad?
Well, he's gonna be
on a no-fly list for a while,
but they're wrapping up
their investigation.
He's been cleared of any
wrongdoing.
Okay, good to know.
Thanks, Spike.
The ATU is clearing you.
What?
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God!
CASHMIRA (laughs):
It's over!
Hey, Spike, a lot of these
e-mail threats are being sent
from the same I.P. address.
I'll run a trace,
see if we can
connect them to Davis.
(exhales)
All right, I'm just
gonna change this, okay?
Don't try to be the tough guy--
I know what it feels like.
I've been shot before.
I know how much
pain you're in.
So how do you like
the date so far?
You really know
how to keep a girl
on her toes, huh?
Wait till you see what...
I have planned for the next one.
(whispers): We can't-- he's just
gonna start shooting again.
That's why we got
to do it fast, disarm him.
There are a lot of us
and only one of him.
Steve, you're shivering.
Yeah, the...
the room... is spinning.
Your heart's racing really fast.
Yeah, I'm cold.
I'm just going into shock.
I'm gonna go try and I'm
gonna go get your jacket.
No, no...
Look, look at me,
will you look at me?
You're gonna keep
talking to me, okay?
I'm an idiot.
You're not;
it's not your fault.
No, I mean I shouldn't have
waited so long to ask you out.
Let's save
the deathbed confession
for 50 years from now,
okay?
You gonna be there?
PARKER: Sam, let us
know when you're close.
Hey, guys, those
threats against Riyaz?
You were right.
The I.P. address traces back
to Davis's group home.
So he did make those threats.
Hey, Ed, take a
look at this one.
Okay, boss,
listen to this.
"With one bomb,
you killed 26 people.
"Time for you
"and your followers
to get a taste
of your own medicine."
"Taste of his
own medicine"?
Think Davis built a bomb?
His father mentioned
that he had a degree
in chemical engineering.
So why show up
at the restaurant with a gun?
Maybe he'd already
planted it somewhere
and wanted to take
the leader out personally.
Sounds like Riyaz
wasn't his only target.
Okay, boss, we're gonna head
to the group home.
Okay, Eddie, check Davis's room,
check everywhere--
find out what he's building
and who he's targeting.
Copy that.
Mr. Fayad?
Yes, Officer?
An officer's gonna take you
downtown for processing.
It's just
procedure.
I'll go with you.
No. You and Sayid
go to the mosque.
Pray for Eric
and the others
at the restaurant.
Okay.
(whispers):
Come on, let's go. Come on.
(distorted, echoed voices)
Get back!
Sam, hostages
are turning on him.
Get in there now.
Get back against the wall now!
I'll shoot you
all one by one!
Drop your weapon.
Drop your weapons.
Drop...
Everybody, do what the man says!
(panicked screams)
Drop your weapons
and go back to where you were!
It's all right, buddy,
you can stand down--
I got this area of
operations contained.
Go back to where you were now,
all of you!
Do it now!
Who are you?
I'm Master Corporal
Sam Braddock,
Special Forces.
I'm here to help.
You knew this place
was a front for terrorists?
Sam, don't lie to him.
He's sensitive to deception.
I know what it's like
to feel afraid.
I served two tours
in Afghanistan.
I know what it's like
to walk down the street
and wonder where they're
gonna strike again.
You feel helpless, like
you're never gonna be safe.
That's what they want.
All of us to live
in a state of fear.
Yeah.
That's why we got to fight back.
You know about
the operation...
(gunshot, people yelling)
(grunting, shouting)
Settle down.
What are you doing?!
You... you lied to me!
You lied to me!
SAM:
I didn't lie.
(handcuffs click)
Subject in custody.
PARKER:
Good work, guys, good work.
(panting)
Thank you.
E.M.S, we need E.M.S.
in here now.
Eddie, you find anything
at the group home?
ED:
Boss, we're in the basement.
Davis is building
something here.
And it doesn't look like
any kind of bomb I've ever seen.
(shutter clicks)
Have a look.
(beeping)
Are those fire extinguishers?
Uh-huh.
They're all empty.
Watches, pesticides?
What's that
on the floor?
(shutter clicks)
Castor beans.
Talk to me, Spike.
Castor beans and pesticides:
major components
in both ricin and sarin.
Nerve gas.
Fire extinguishers
hold compressed gas.
Watch is a timer.
He's made a chemical bomb,
and it's already out there.
PARKER:
Sam.
How is he?
Davis? Davis, I'm
Sergeant Parker.
How you doing?
You doing okay?
Look, I want you to know that
you're safe-- we're not gonna
let anything happen
to you, okay?
But we could really use
your help right now.
We know that you made some
kind of chemical bomb,
and we need to know
where it is.
Davis, a bomb
like that
could kill a lot of
innocent people.
I don't think we're
gonna get anything
out of him.
Get him to the hospital,
regulate his meds.
Keep an eye on Mr. Lagosto--
when he becomes coherent,
you question him
again, okay?
Eddie, couldn't get anything.
You need to tear
that place apart
and figure out where
his next target may have been.
Let the social worker Clive
know that he's there, he's safe,
but he's gonna need his help
at the hospital.
Boss, the social worker's
not here.
Boss, I got something.
All right, I'm on my way.
JULES:
I'm right here,
Steve, okay?
I'm coming with you.
Nah, nah-hah, you don't have
to come with me.
You're going
into surgery.
You need somebody there
when you wake up.
Yeah, there's a bomb out there.
That team needs you.
Are you sure?
Yeah. I'll be all right.
Okay, I'm gonna come by later.
(siren approaching)
(Steve grunts)
You better suit up.
Yeah.
I got into Davis' computer.
Those threats against Riyaz?
They're in Davis' outbox, but
they're not in his
"sent" mail folder.
What does that mean, Spike?
It means someone was using his
computer as a proxy server.
Davis didn't send those threats.
Someone was setting him up.
Can you trace it?
I'm running
a tunneling program right now.
Clive Irwin.
His social worker.
So why would Clive want
to frame Davis?
Eddie?
Boss?
Clive is now a person
of interest.
Wordy, let's get this open.
Copy.
Boss, looks like Clive's been
conducting
his own investigation
of Mr. Fayad.
Who'd you find?
We got articles
on domestic terrorism,
surveillance photos
on Mr. Fayad
and other Muslims.
Suspected cell members.
Clive's the one who's paranoid
about terrorism.
I think I know why.
Clive's wife was killed
in the London terror
attacks a few years ago.
WOMAN:
Clive never got over
losing his wife.
Did he ever discuss it
with Davis?
Oh, it's funny.
He never talked
about it to anyone,
and then a few
months ago
they were playing chess...
When the bomb went off,
the train split in half.
She was thrown onto the tracks.
I tried to go to her,
but I couldn't stand up.
Both my legs were broken.
I didn't know
if she was alive or dead.
Her face was
turned away.
(voice breaking):
I just kept calling her name.
I'm almost convinced
it's been a bad dream.
(sobs softly)
They say that Riyaz Fayad was
connected
to those suicide bombers.
There must be a way
to stop him.
I mean, you can't
blame Clive
for how he feels.
Okay, thank you.
Did you get all that?
Yeah. Sounds like Clive's been
whispering
in Davis' ear for months.
Feeding his paranoia
about an attack
and convincing him
to build a bomb.
Well, Davis probably had no idea
his friend was using him
as a weapon.
Setting him up to take the fall.
One of the residents said
they saw Clive driving
away 20 minutes ago.
Where'd he go?
No idea, just said
he's moving fast.
Well, if he was using Davis
to keep his own hands clean,
why would he take
the bomb himself?
'Cause Davis can't now,
and the job isn't done.
It's gotta be the mosque,
remember?
Clive didn't just
threaten Riyaz.
He said "You and
your followers
are gonna get
a taste
of your own medicine."
He thinks it's their base
of operations.
Lawrence and
Avenue Road.
PARKER:
Let's go, let's move!
WINNIE:
Clive's car's been spotted in
the parking lot of the mosque.
(man intoning prayer in Arabic)
(prayer continues)
Sergeant Parker?
Yeah?
Dr. Zelovitsky,
I'm with HAZMAT.
How are you?
I'm heading up
the medical team.
Any idea what kind of toxin
we're dealing with?
Could be a nerve agent,
maybe a derivative of ricin
or sarin.
It's hard to be specific,
'cause it's a home brew.
We need to prepare
for hemorrhaging,
convulsions,
even fatalities.
Let's hope
it doesn't come to that.
We'll be ready.
Thank you.
Okay, Spike, what do we got?
Looks like Davis outfitted
the extinguishers
with artificial heads.
He presses a
manual detonator,
and the cylinder will
blow, releasing the gas.
Okay. Can you disarm it?
Yeah, if we find
it in time.
If we evacuate, it'll tip him
off; he could release the toxin.
Okay.
Absolute stealth, guys
Spike, Wordy,
you take the back.
Sam and Jules, west.
Boss, let's take east.
Let's move it.
Okay, baby.
You go ahead.
Mommy will be right over, okay?
(prayer continues)
(people praying quietly)
Um, can I help you?
(prayer continues)
Can I help you?
Masks on.
Yeah.
SAM:
I have a visual.
PARKER:
Where?
Looks like the prayer room.
Does he have the bomb?
Affirmative.
I have the solution.
SPIKE:
Sam?
Hold fire. If the bomb
hits the floor, it'll blow.
ED:
Spike, shut down
the ventilation system.
If the toxin's released,
we can keep it contained.
Copy that.
I'm going on in.
Police!
(gasping)
SRU!
Police!
Right there.
Everybody, exit the building.
Everyone exit the building now.
Exit the room now!
Do it now!
Nobody move!
Or I'll set off
this bomb right now!
PARKER: Clive!
Clive. Just put it down.
Put it down,
and move away slowly.
I don't expect you
to believe me.
Someone has to stop them.
PARKER: But will you just listen
closely to what I have to say
before you do anything
that you might regret here?
ATU, Anti-Terrorist Unit,
fully investigated Riyaz Fayad
and the others of this mosque,
and they've been cleared.
No, they haven't!
Don't play games with me.
They have.
None of them have links
to the terrorists
that were responsible
for your wife's death.
Clive, you push that button,
and you're going to die here.
Is that what you really want?
Is that what Laura would want?
(sighs)
If that's what it takes.
Put it down.
Clive!
(hissing)
(panicked clamoring)
ED:
Everybody clear the building!
Clear the building!
Everybody out now!
Hustle through the doors
as quickly as you can!
CASHMIRA:
Sayid! Sayid!
Sayid!
Please, I have to find Sayid.
(screaming and murmuring)
Come on, out this way.
That's it.
That's it. Let's go.
Everybody out! Out!
Go! Go! Go! Go!
(sobbing)
Move it! Move it!
Wordy, we got to get to Sayid.
Let's go!
We need these people contained.
Everyone needs
to be sprayed down.
That includes you.
I hear you, Doc.
As soon as everyone's safe.
Head straight over
to the blue tents.
Watch your step.
People will be there
to help you.
Keep going! Keep going!
Go! Go! Let's go!
Get out of here!
(gasping, coughing)
PARKER:
All right, Team One, full sweep
for anyone left inside.
Sayid!
Sayid! Sayid!
Come on.
I got you. I got you.
Let's go.
We need some help.
Let's go!
Let's go, right here!
Come on! Doc!
Oh, my God, Sayid!
Oh, my God.
It's okay. Doc.
CASHMIRA:
Is he going
to be okay?
Baby!
Resps are shallow. I need
five milligrams of Atropine.
Please, please, please...
They're doing
everything they can.
Sayid, baby, Mommy's right here.
Come on!
Mommy's right here, baby.
Come on! Let's go!
Please. He's just a baby.
Finished my report.
Thanks, buddy.
I hear you made a call
on Riyaz's behalf.
Yeah.
Boss, he only threatened us
because he was scared.
He thought we
were the rendition squad.
He saw what he feared the most.
And he wasn't
the only one today
who saw something
that wasn't there.
Hey. Update from the hospital.
Five people still
in serious condition,
but they're expected
to pull through.
What about the boy, Sayid?
Doing okay.
Thanks, Spike.
Yeah.
Hey.
How you feeling?
Better... now.
Can I just say something?
Sure.
Last few months,
uh, doing a lot of thinking.
Just about, uh, the big picture.
Yeah, I have, too.
Just family.
Future and stuff.
(clears throat)
And what I'm guessing is, uh,
our big pictures
aren't the same.
'Cause you're in mine,
but, uh...
I don't think I'm in yours.
Hey.
It's okay.
It's all good.
There's no regrets.
Well, almost no regrets.
What do you mean?
Never got to finish
our ice cream.
(both chuckle)
(groans)
Shh.
Do you hear me
when I speak of you?
Just one favor.
Anything.
Promise me...
Do you feel me
...keep singing.
Loving you?
Yeah.
Did you see me?
'Cause I see you
But it's good-bye
Good-bye
Good-bye, good-bye
Good-bye, good-bye again.